so without romanticizing this too much
imagine that you light your home with
kerosene and candles every night and
that you do all of your cooking with
charcoal this is how the world's 2
billion poorest people cook and light
their homes every day this isn't just
inconvenient this is inefficient it's
expensive it's harmful to human health
it's harmful to the environment it's
unproductive
and that's energy poverty so let me give
you a couple of examples
I work in Haiti where about 80% of the
population lives in energy poverty the
average household spends 10% of its
income on kerosene for lighting that's
an order of magnitude greater than what
the average US helps the u.s. household
spends on electricity to light their
homes the 2008 hurricane season in Haiti
caused about 1 billion dollars in damage
it was a sixth of their GDP and the
damage was so severe because the primary
energy fuel in Haiti is charcoal which
is made from trees and has left the
country almost completely deforested
without trees the country can't absorb
heavy rains and massive flooding as a
result so in the industrialized world we
built walls that protect us from the
externalities of our energy use we can
afford to clean up acute environmental
disasters and we can also afford to
adapt to chronic conditions like climate
change that's not the case for Haiti
they can't afford this the only way that
they're going to lift themselves out of
energy poverty is by adapting fuels that
are more efficient that are less
expensive that are better for human
health that are better for the
environment and that are more productive
so it turns out that those fuels and
technologies exists and this is an
example of that this is a solar LED
light bulb that we sell for a retail
price of about $10 in rural Haiti
that's a payback period of less than 3
months for the average Haitian household
so the prescriptions of solve energy
poverty seems pretty straightforward you
develop these technologies that have a
great return on investment and people
should
snatching them up but that's not the
case the first time I ever went down to
Haiti was in August of 2008 sort of on a
whim and I was fielding surveys in the
rural South of the country to assess the
extent of energy poverty and at night I
would go around sometimes and I would
speak with the street vendors and see if
they were interested in buying these
solar LED lamps and so one woman who I
encountered turned down my offer and she
said ma cherie Steph will share which
basically means my dear it's too
expensive
but I tried to explain to her you know
look this is going to save you a lot of
money and it's going to give you even
better light than what you're using now
with the kerosene so I didn't make the
sale but I did learn a really important
lesson which is that technology products
we're not going to end energy poverty
instead of access was going to and
specifically there are two types of
access that are going to end energy
poverty there's physical access and
there's financial access so physical
access what does that mean it's very
expensive for low income households in
developing countries to reach major
centers of Commerce it's basically
impossible for them to order something
off of amazon.com the last mile is a
phrase that's normally associated with
the telecommunications industry means
that last bit of wire that's necessary
to connect a customer to the provider
what we need for ending energy poverty
our last mile retailers that bring these
clean energy products to the people the
kerosene and charcoal value chains
already figured this out those fuels are
ubiquitous across the entire country you
can go to the most remote village in
Haiti and you will find somebody selling
kerosene and charcoal so the other type
of access financial we all know that
clean energy products technologies tend
to be characterized by higher upfront
cost but very low operating costs and so
in the industrialized world we have very
generous subsidies that are specifically
designed to bring down those upfront
costs those subsidies don't exist in
Haiti what they do have is microfinance
but you're going to severely diminish
the value proposition of your clean
energy product if you expect somebody in
Haiti to go out get a micro loan go back
to the retailer and then buy the clean
energy
product so the prescription to end
energy poverty is much more complicated
than simply products we need to
integrate financial access directly into
new innovative distribution models what
does that mean that means bundling
consumer credit with the retailer this
is really easy for Bloomingdale's to do
but it's not so easy for a rural sales
agent in Haiti to do we need to redirect
cash flows that are going now from the
Diaspora in the United States through
Western Union wire transfers in cash
directly into clean energy products that
can be delivered to or picked up by
their friends or family in Haiti so the
next time you hear about the technology
or product that's going to change the
world be a little bit skeptical the
inventor Dean came and the guy who
invented the Segway a genius by any
standards once said that his job is easy
inventing things is easy the hard part
is the technology dissemination it's
getting those technologies and products
to the people who need it most
thank you